🎨 Palette: Add LabeledBy to Hotkey controls (#417)
mikekthx/Launchbox: .jules/palette.md

## 2026-05-15 - ProgressRing Visibility Binding
**Learning:** In WinUI 3, a `ProgressRing` automatically hides its visuals when `IsActive="False"`. It is not necessary to explicitly bind its `Visibility` property using a boolean-to-visibility converter unless the layout space it reserves needs to be reclaimed.
**Action:** When adding simple visual feedback using a `ProgressRing` alongside a button (e.g., in a `StackPanel`), simply bind the `IsActive` property to the async command's execution state without a redundant `Visibility` binding.

> 

Reviewer: **Wrong date.** The entry is stamped `2026-06-21`, but the actual system date is `2026-06-19`. CLAUDE.md requires running `date +%Y-%m-%d` before writing any date to a file — never relying on inference.

```suggestion
## 2026-06-19 - Settings Control LabeledBy Linkage
```

## 2026-06-19 - Settings Control LabeledBy Linkage

> **Learning:** In WinUI 3 XAML settings or forms, to properly support screen readers, interactive controls (e.g., `ComboBox`, `TextBox`) must be explicitly linked to their visual headers.

Reviewer: **Advice contradicts implementation.** This says to set `LabeledBy` on the **interactive controls**, but the PR sets it on the container `StackPanel`. A future Jules run following this verbatim will put `LabeledBy` on the `ComboBox`/`TextBox` directly — triggering the Name/LabeledBy conflict that previous review raised (existing `x:Uid`-set Names take UIA precedence, and non-compliant AT clients like older NVDA/JAWS would announce "Global Hotkey" instead of "Hotkey modifier" / "Hotkey key").

The entry should document what the code actually does (LabeledBy on the container) **and why** — or, if the intent is to apply it to each control, the code should be updated to match.

```suggestion
**Action:** When multiple interactive controls share a single group label (e.g., modifier + key inputs), prefer adding `AutomationProperties.AutomationControlType="Group"` and `AutomationProperties.Name="..."` to the container rather than `LabeledBy`, to avoid conflict with per-control `AutomationProperties.Name` values already set via `x:Uid`. For a single control with no `x:Uid`-set Name, use `x:Name` on the header `TextBlock` and `AutomationProperties.LabeledBy="{Binding ElementName=HeaderName}"` directly on the interactive control.
```

> **Action:** To provide group context for a section of controls (e.g., a group of hotkey inputs), apply `AutomationProperties.AutomationControlType="Group"` and `AutomationProperties.LabeledBy="{Binding ElementName=HeaderName}"` to the parent container that wraps both the header and the controls. Additionally, when defining interactive `ListView` items, set `AutomationProperties.Name="{x:Bind LabelProperty}"` on the root `DataTemplate` element (e.g., `Grid`) to ensure the item is properly named for screen readers.

Reviewer: **The Learning and Action contradict each other — and both reference a property that likely doesn't exist.**

The **Learning** says "setting `AutomationProperties.LabeledBy` on a non-focusable container (like `StackPanel`) is a no-op", but the **Action** immediately recommends doing exactly that on the container. A future Jules run reading this entry will either (a) apply `LabeledBy` to the container while knowing it's a no-op, or (b) be confused about which part to follow.

The intent was presumably that `AutomationControlType="Group"` changes the container's UIA participation, making `LabeledBy` meaningful. But the entry doesn't explain this, and — as flagged in the XAML comment above — `AutomationProperties.AutomationControlType` is not a valid WinUI 3 XAML property.

The entry should either:

**a) Document what was found to be correct and safe** — i.e., that the per-control `x:Uid`-set Names are sufficient, and group context is best provided by `AutomationProperties.LocalizedControlType` on the container if desired:

```suggestion
**Learning:** In WinUI 3 XAML, setting `AutomationProperties.LabeledBy` on a non-focusable container (like `StackPanel`) is a no-op for assistive technologies — the StackPanel is never the focus target, so AT clients never read its `LabeledBy` relationship. Setting `LabeledBy` directly on an interactive control (`ComboBox`, `TextBox`) that already has an `x:Uid`-set `AutomationProperties.Name` is also unsafe: some AT clients (older NVDA, JAWS) prefer `LabeledBy` over `Name`, causing the control to announce the generic header instead of its specific label, which is a regression. Note: `AutomationProperties.AutomationControlType` and `AutomationProperties.Role` are not valid XAML attached properties in WinUI 3; both cause XAML compile errors.
**Action:** For grouped hotkey inputs, the per-control Names set via `x:Uid` (`"Hotkey modifier"`, `"Hotkey key"`) are sufficient for AT users. If a group label hint is desired, use `AutomationProperties.LocalizedControlType="group"` on the container (a string hint only; does not change focus behavior). When defining interactive `ListView` items, set `AutomationProperties.Name="{x:Bind LabelProperty}"` on the root `DataTemplate` element (e.g., `Grid`) to ensure screen readers announce the item correctly.
```

**b) Simply remove the entry** if the underlying XAML change is rolled back (option 1 or 3 from the XAML comment above).

> **Action:** To safely provide group context for a section of controls without compilation errors or name conflicts, apply `AutomationProperties.LocalizedControlType="group"` and `AutomationProperties.LabeledBy="{Binding ElementName=HeaderName}"` to the parent container that wraps both the header and the controls. Additionally, when defining interactive `ListView` items, set `AutomationProperties.Name="{x:Bind LabelProperty}"` on the root `DataTemplate` element (e.g., `Grid`) to ensure the item is properly named for screen readers.

Reviewer: The Learning and Action still have the same contradiction flagged in thread `PRRT_kwDORLRSls6K05I4`:

- **Learning** says `LabeledBy` on a non-focusable container "requires setting it as a group to be recognized" — implying it *can* work with the group hint.
- **Action** then recommends applying `LabeledBy` to the parent container — but multiple prior review threads established this is still a no-op because `StackPanel` is never the focus target regardless of `LocalizedControlType`.

A future Jules run following this entry will repeat the same no-op pattern. The Action for the `ListView` item naming (`AutomationProperties.Name="{x:Bind LabelProperty}"` on the root `DataTemplate` element) is correct and worth keeping; the grouping advice should document that the per-control `x:Uid` Names are sufficient:

```suggestion
**Learning:** In WinUI 3 XAML, `AutomationProperties.AutomationControlType` does not exist as an attached property and causes build failures. `AutomationProperties.LabeledBy` on a non-focusable container (like `StackPanel`) is a no-op for assistive technologies — focus never lands on the container, so UIA never reads its `LabeledBy` relationship. Setting `LabeledBy` directly on an interactive control that already has an `x:Uid`-set `Name` is also unsafe: some AT clients (older NVDA, JAWS) prefer `LabeledBy` over `Name`, causing controls to announce the generic header instead of their specific label.
**Action:** For grouped hotkey inputs, the per-control `AutomationProperties.Name` values set via `x:Uid` are sufficient — no additional grouping markup is needed. When defining interactive `ListView` items, set `AutomationProperties.Name="{x:Bind LabelProperty}"` on the root `DataTemplate` element (e.g., `Grid`) so screen readers announce the item correctly.
```

> **Action:** Do not attempt to use `AutomationProperties.LabeledBy` on non-focusable layout panels to establish group context, as it has no effect in the UIA reading path. Rely on explicit per-control `AutomationProperties.Name` (e.g., via `x:Uid`) for individual inputs. However, when defining interactive `ListView` items, always set `AutomationProperties.Name="{x:Bind LabelProperty}"` on the root `DataTemplate` element (e.g., `Grid`) to ensure the entire item is properly named for screen readers when focused.

Reviewer: The Action correctly prohibits `LabeledBy` on non-focusable containers, but as written it may be misread as prohibiting `LabeledBy` entirely. The rest of `SettingsWindow.xaml` already uses `LabeledBy="{Binding ElementName=…}"` on focusable controls (the icon-size `ComboBox`, the view-mode `ComboBox`), which is the valid and recommended pattern. Consider adding a clarifying sentence so a future Jules run doesn't strip those existing usages:

```suggestion
**Action:** Do not attempt to use `AutomationProperties.LabeledBy` on non-focusable layout panels to establish group context, as it has no effect in the UIA reading path. On focusable controls (e.g., `ComboBox`, `TextBox`) that lack an `x:Uid`-set Name, using `AutomationProperties.LabeledBy="{Binding ElementName=HeaderName}"` is valid and the established pattern in this file. Rely on explicit per-control `AutomationProperties.Name` (e.g., via `x:Uid`) for individual inputs that already have descriptive names. When defining interactive `ListView` items, always set `AutomationProperties.Name="{x:Bind LabelProperty}"` on the root `DataTemplate` element (e.g., `Grid`) to ensure the entire item is properly named for screen readers when focused.
```
